Create full APDU and RAPDU specification for Exchange (#142)
LedgerHQ/app-exchange: protocol.md

# Protocol to speak with EXCHANGE application

Communication is done through a serie of request-response exchanges (APDU / RAPDU).

## Request:

| Bytes         | Description                                     |
| ------------- | ----------------------------------------------- |
| 1 byte        | CLASS (constant 0xE0)                           |

> | 1 byte        | COMMAND to run, each command is described below |

Author: Done

| 1 byte        | P1: RATE_TYPE of the transaction                |

> | 1 byte        | P2: mask of TYPE and EXTENSION                  |

Author: Done

| SET_PARTNER_KEY              | 0x04  | Set the credentials of the exchange partner                                           |
| CHECK_PARTNER                | 0x05  | Check that the credentials of the exchange partner are signed by the Ledger key       |
| PROCESS_TRANSACTION_RESPONSE | 0x06  | Receive the transaction proposal from the exchange partner                            |
| CHECK_TRANSACTION_SIGNATURE  | 0x07  | Check that the transaction proposal is signed by the exchange partner                 |
| CHECK_ASSET_IN_LEGACY        | 0x08  | Format the amounts and fees used. (FUND_LEGACY and SELL_LEGACY flows only)            |
| CHECK_ASSET_IN               | 0x0B  | Format the amounts and fees used. (FUND_NEW and SELL_NEW flows only)                  |
| CHECK_PAYOUT_ADDRESS         | 0x08  | Check that the payout address belongs to us (SWAP based flows only)                   |
| CHECK_REFUND_ADDRESS         | 0x09  | Check that the refund address belongs to us (SWAP based flows only)                   |
| START_SIGNING_TRANSACTION    | 0x0A  | Start the library application responsible for the FROM signing                        |

> The COMMANDS must be sent to the application in the correct order, this order depends of the TYPE chosen for the exchange flow:

Author: It's written in the COMMANDs note line 50, let me know if it's enough

> The COMMANDS must be sent to the application in the correct order, this order depends of the TYPE chosen for the exchange flow:

Author: I've seen the comment below and increased visibility of notes

- START_NEW_TRANSACTION
- SET_PARTNER_KEY
- CHECK_PARTNER
- PROCESS_TRANSACTION_RESPONSE
- CHECK_TRANSACTION_SIGNATURE
    - For SWAP based TYPES:
        - CHECK_PAYOUT_ADDRESS
        - CHECK_REFUND_ADDRESS
    - For FUND_LEGACY and SELL_LEGACY TYPES:
        - CHECK_ASSET_IN_LEGACY
    - For FUND_NEW and SELL_NEW TYPES:
        - CHECK_ASSET_IN
- START_SIGNING_TRANSACTION

Notes: \
Commands CHECK_REFUND_ADDRESS, CHECK_ASSET_IN_LEGACY, and CHECK_ASSET_IN prompt an UI review screen. \
It is always possible to restart the flow by sending a START_NEW_TRANSACTION command, except when an UI review screen is displayed. \

> The command START_SIGNING_TRANSACTION will start the library application, the current application will not be EXCHANGE anymore.

Author: Done

### RATE_TYPE:

Different rates possible for the transaction. They are given to the app as P1 of an APDU.

| Name     | Value | Description                                  |
| -------- | ----- | -------------------------------------------- |
| FIXED    | 0x00  | The rate in the transaction is a fixed value |
| FLOATING | 0x01  | The rate in the transaction is an estimation |

### TYPE:

> Different exchange types are possible for the app. They are given to the app as the lower part of P2 of an APDU. \

Author: Done

> Once an exchange flow is started, the subcommand cannot be changed.

Author: Done + wrote that the wrong apdu is dropped

| Name        | Value | Description                                                                                     |
| ----------- | ----- | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| SWAP_LEGACY | 0x00  | SWAP transaction (crypto against crypto) using legacy signature and encoding, deprecated soon   |
| SELL_LEGACY | 0x01  | SELL transaction (crypto against fiat) using legacy signature and encoding, deprecated soon     |

> | FUND_LEGACY | 0x02  | FUND transaction (crypto to owned account) using legacy signature and encoding, deprecated soon |

Author: Done

| SWAP_NEW    | 0x03  | SWAP transaction (crypto against crypto) using unified signature and encoding                   |
| SELL_NEW    | 0x04  | SELL transaction (crypto against fiat) using unified signature and encoding                     |
| FUND_NEW    | 0x05  | FUND transaction (crypto to owned account) using unified signature and encoding                 |

### EXTENSION:

> The maximum data in a single APDU is 255 bytes, in case it is not sufficient for a command, it is possible to send the commad in several parts. \

Author: Done

> It is given to the app as the upper part of P2 of an APDU. \

Author: Reworded

> It is only possible to use this field for a PROCESS_TRANSACTION_RESPONSE command in a SWAP_NEW, SELL_NEW, or FUND_NEW flow.

Author: Done

| Name      | Value     | Description                                                       |
| --------- | --------- | ----------------------------------------------------------------- |
| P2_NONE   | 0x00 << 4 | This APDU is self sufficient                                      |
| P2_EXTEND | 0x01 << 4 | This APDU is not whole, it extends a previously received one      |
| P2_MORE   | 0x02 << 4 | This APDU is not whole, the followup part while be received later |

### DATA:

> For all COMMANDS, the data bytes must be prefixed by a data length header. \

Author: Mmmmh it's me mixing things up, I'm confusing the LC header (ALWAYS 1 byte) and the data prefix on SOME commands (sometime none, sometime 1 byte, sometime 2)
I'll rework this

> For all COMMANDS, the data bytes must be prefixed by a data length header. \

Author: I've basically removed this comments, LC is described in the top table, the various length prefixes are described in the relevant commands

For PROCESS_TRANSACTION_RESPONSE command of a SWAP_NEW, SELL_NEW, and FUND_NEW, the data length header is coded on 2 bytes. \
For all other COMMANDS and all other TYPES, the data length header is coded on 1 byte.

#### GET_VERSION

No data expected.

#### START_NEW_TRANSACTION

No data expected.

#### SET_PARTNER_KEY

| Bytes   | Description                        |
| ------- | ---------------------------------- |
| 1 byte  | Length of the encoded partner name |
| N bytes | Partner name encoded with utf-8    |

> | N bytes | Partner public key                 |

Author: Done

#### CHECK_PARTNER

| Bytes  | Description                                                                             |
| ------ | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | N byte | Signature of the partner credentials by the Ledger key, curve secp256k1 hashfunc sha256 |

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| SIZE bytes | Signature of the partner credentials by the Ledger key, curve secp256k1 hashfunc sha256 |
```
or
```suggestion
| 1 byte  | Length of the signature of the partner credentials N                                          |
| B bytes | Signature of the partner credentials by the Ledger key, curve secp256k1 hashfunc sha256 |
```

Author: No length header field, only LC, added this info in the doc

#### PROCESS_TRANSACTION_RESPONSE

| Bytes        | Description                                                                                     |
| ------------ | ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | 1 or 2 bytes | Length of the encoded transaction proposal. 1 bytes on Legacy TYPES, 2 bytes on new TYPES       |

Author: Yes, some commands do not add a size field as first byte of DATA (not to be confused with the LC (data length) header byte, mandatory

| N bytes      | Transaction proposal. No encoding for SWAP_LEGACY, URLsafe base 64 encoding for all other TYPES |
| 1 byte       | Length of the transaction fees                                                                  |

> | N bytes      | Transaction fees                                                                                |

Author: I'll add a note on this in the EXTENSION part
Basically we create the whole APDU tx + fees and if it's more than 255 bytes we cut and send the two chunks

Please refer to the src/protobuf files for the actual transaction proposal content.

#### CHECK_TRANSACTION_SIGNATURE

| Bytes  | Description                                                                                                |
| ------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| N byte | Signature of the proposed transaction by the partner.                                                      |

For SWAP_LEGACY TYPE, the signature is computed on the sha256 hash of the transaction. \

> For all other TYPES the signature is computed on the sha256 hash of the DOT ('.') prefixed transaction.

Author: Done

| 1 byte  | Ticker length                                                                                                           |
| N bytes | Ticker name of this the coin configuration. The ticker has to be the same as the FROM ticker                            |
| 1 byte  | Application length                                                                                                      |
| N bytes | Name of the application that can handle this currency                                                                   |
| 1 byte  | Sub coin configuration length                                                                                           |
| N bytes | Sub coin configuration, used for tokens to specify an app the subticker and the decimals                                |
| N bytes | Signature of the coin configuration by the Ledger key, curve secp256k1 hashfunc sha256                                  |
| 1 byte  | Packed derivation path length                                                                                           |

> | N bytes | Packed derivation path used for the FROM coin                                                                           |

Author: The signature has a header with it's format and size, I think it's out of scope of this doc

> | N bytes | Packed derivation path used for the FROM coin                                                                           |

Author: Modified letters

> | N bytes | Packed derivation path used for the FROM coin                                                                           |

Author: Described the format to use for signature ( DER )

| Bytes   | Description                                                                                                           |
| ------- | --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| 1 byte  | Coin configuration length of the TO coin. The coin configuration is made of the ticker, appname, and subconfiguration |
| 1 byte  | Ticker length                                                                                                         |
| N bytes | Ticker name of this the coin configuration. The ticker has to be the same as the TO ticker                            |
| 1 byte  | Application length                                                                                                    |
| N bytes | Name of the application that can handle this currency                                                                 |
| 1 byte  | Sub coin configuration length                                                                                         |
| N bytes | Sub coin configuration, used for tokens to specify an app the subticker and the decimals                              |

> | N bytes | Signature of the coin configuration by the Ledger key, curve secp256k1 hashfunc sha256                                |

Reviewer: Is the size of this signature is an explicit constant, or is `N` stored somewhere else?

Author: DER format is standard and contains a header with the length, added this info

| 1 byte  | Packed derivation path length                                                                                         |

> | N bytes | Packed derivation path used for the TO coin                                                                           |

Reviewer: As before, as `N` changes, it should be documented with other names.

Author: Done

| 1 byte  | Ticker length                                                                                                           |
| N bytes | Ticker name of this the coin configuration. The ticker has to be the same as the FROM ticker                            |
| 1 byte  | Application length                                                                                                      |
| N bytes | Name of the application that can handle this currency                                                                   |
| 1 byte  | Sub coin configuration length                                                                                           |
| N bytes | Sub coin configuration, used for tokens to specify an app the subticker and the decimals                                |
| N bytes | Signature of the coin configuration by the Ledger key, curve secp256k1 hashfunc sha256                                  |
| 1 byte  | Packed derivation path length                                                                                           |

> | N bytes | Packed derivation path used for the FROM coin                                                                           |

Reviewer: Same remarks as before.

Author: Done

#### START_SIGNING_TRANSACTION

No data expected.

## Response:

| Bytes         | Description           |
| ------------- | --------------------- |
| N bytes       | Command specific data |
| 2 bytes       | Return code           |

### Returned data

Only the COMMANDS described below return data. All others only return a code.

#### GET_VERSION

In case of success, this command will return the application version in format {MAJOR.MINOR.PATCH}.

#### START_NEW_TRANSACTION

In case of success, this command will return a nonce called "device transaction id" used for the initiated flow. \
For TYPE SWAP_LEGACY, the format of this nonce is a 10 char array. \
For all other TYPES, the format of this nonce is a 32 bytes array.

### Return code

Return code can be one of the following values:

| Bytes  | Name                     | Description                                                                              |
| ------ | ------------------------ | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- |

> | 0x6A80 | INCORRECT_COMMAND_DATA   | Command byte, or specific command data is incorrect                                      |

Reviewer: "Command byte incorrect" is not very specific, what does it mean?
Given the context, an "incorrect command" can also be responded with "UNEXPECTED_INSTRUCTION" or "INVALID_INSTRUCTION". I don't know what else it could be here.

Author: Replaced by
`The DATA sent does not match the correct format for the COMMAND specified`
